From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 35. Recorded
live Thursday, September 30th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman. It's just provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components, but
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Eric or
Branson about making your hobby
a profession. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
Thinking about turning a hobby
into a company. A lot
of people out there go
down to the Valley and
they make a lot of
money. Is it something that
you can do when you're
20, when you're 30, when
you're 40, while we've got
Eric or Branson on the
show, he is turning a
hobby into a company. Thanks,
Eric, for chatting with me.
Yeah. Thanks for having me.
So you have a real
job and you have this
side thing, is that right?
Yeah. Yeah. I, I do
iPhone and Android development by
day and by night, I'm
the, I guess the, the
mass coder of audio orchard,
audio orchard. And you're changing
the name soon. So people
can also find it as
scratch audio, scratch out. Oh
yeah, we got the old,
a cease and desist letter.
So there's one thing to
watch out for when you're,
when you're a startup that
falls into the category of
the many things you don't
know that you don't know
about legal battles, over names
is not fun. So start
at the beginning, you're an
iPhone developer, you're a mobile
developer. And then one day
you decide people need to
do online audio mixing and
you pick silver light. And
how does it, how does
it start taking me back
to the beginning? Yeah, so
it really started with, with
a sort of off the
cuff discussion with a couple
of guys I was working
with at the time. And
we were just talking about
things that would be fun
projects, things that would be
interesting. We are, I'm a
little bored of the project
we had at the time.
And so we were just
kind of brainstorming and we
started talking about audio and
what you could do there.
And it kinda started talking
about, well, I wonder if
you could do audio in
the browser yet, if, if
you know, is the technology
there. So, so we did
a little digging around a
little researching and found that,
you know, flash and just
added some sort of low
level audio support that would
make that sort of thing
possible. And Silverlight let me
see. Silverlight three beta had
like been announced that week,
so he's started playing around
with it and we started,
you know, just kinda digging
into these things and it
turns out it was possible.
And from there it sort
of turned into almost like
a dare of like, well,
who wants to actually turn,
who actually wants to do
this. So that's kinda how
it started, you know, from
there it kind of became
well, that's kind of interesting,
you know, it started with,
yeah, you can do it.
It took a couple of
weeks to play around and
build sort of a prototype.
And then it was like,
well, but who cares? Right?
I mean, it's interesting to,
it's interesting to my geek
friends and me that you
can, but why would anybody
else want to use that?
I mean, there's, there's garage
band, there's pro tools. There's
all sorts of things out
there, you know, who cares
that it's in the browser.
So then we sort of
talked about, well, what if,
if it was online, what
could you do that you,
that you can't do today?
And we sort of quickly
landed on this idea of,
of being able to collaborate,
which is something that's really
painful today. If, if you're,
if you're a musician and
you want to collaborate with
other people, you know, you
sort of record some tracks,
you zip them up, you
email them to somebody and
you wait to get stuff
back from them. It's just,
it's really manual. It's not
fun. And it doesn't work
well. So that's kinda where,
where the project started. And
from there, it just kinda
evolved and kind of lots
of people I talked to
you thought it was a
great idea. And so it
kind of turned into, well,
I want to turn this
into a real company. So,
Well, you kind of glossed
over a little middle part.
There it's a lot, like
the far side cartoon with
a little scientist is trying
to come up with the
answer to the university's questions.
And he has like a
bunch of equations and then
a miracle happens and then
a bunch of equations. So
you had this idea and
then you sat down and
a few weeks later, a
prototype popped out. Had you
learned Silverlight before? I mean,
your, you said you were
an Android and iPhone. Well,
I have actually a lot
of experience in.net. I'm doing
windows applications in web applications
and have done a lot
of different kinds of stuff.
I hadn't done silver light
before I had dabbled in
some WPF stuff, you know,
a couple of admin screen
kind of thing. So I
didn't have a ton of
experience in it, but I
really liked the technology. I
love C sharp. It's, it's
one of my favorite languages
to, to work in. And,
you know, one of the
things early on was, you
know, you, you can do
this in flash. You can
do this in silver light.
You can do it in
Java FX. If you want
to go that route, you
know, there's there's or a
Java applet or something like
that, you know? So there's
multiple routes. So there, there's
kind of some discussion with,
you know, talk with a
lot of people early on
about, you know, trying to
come up, pick the best
technology, you know, we settled
on Silverlight for, for a
couple reasons. One is, is
it just the sheer performance?
You know, I guess HTML
five is another one I
should throw out there. There's
some low level audio stuff
you can do there. The
performance just isn't there yet
for, you know, trying to
process multiple tracks of audio
in real time in JavaScript
just didn't seem plausible. It's
just, it just doesn't have
the horsepower there. Flash suffers
a little bit from the
same thing. There, performance isn't
quite as good from, from
the characteristics and the numbers
that we were looking at
and the other big one
was, was access to threading.
You know, there's lots of
stuff that we wanted to
be able to take care
of in the background, you
know, doing various things that
we, you know, want to
put on a low priority
threads, so it could get
done when there's time, but
don't slow down the audio
processing flash didn't really have
a good way to do
that. So those things together
kind of made us pick
Silverlight. And when did you
find the time to do
this? When you have a
full time job? I mean,
do you have kids and
a wife? Yeah. I got
a wife and three kids,
You know, now you're just
showing off it's one of
the things, sorry. I said
now you're just showing off
three kids. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They're, they're a lot of
fun, but a lot of
work. So yeah. So finding
the time is difficult, you
know, it's, it's a lot
of after everyone goes to
bed kind of thing. So
it's, you know, you, you,
you tuck the kids in
you, you wait until the
wife is tired and then
you sit down and you
start coating sort of your,
your second job, if you
will. So, so I guess
that would be one thing
to say about, you know,
turning a hobby into a,
into a business is it's
definitely gotta be something you're
really committed to because it
is a massive time commitment,
you know, make sure you've,
you've talked about it with
your wife beforehand. Certainly one
of the mistakes I made
was, you know, I got
really excited about the idea
started coding and kind of
decided I was going to
make this into a company.
And then, you know, Oh,
by the way, wife, this
is going to be a
big time commitment. Are you
okay with that? So, you
know, that was some things
we had to work out
early on in this project
and just finding a balance,
you know, for us, it
was, you know, saying, well,
putting time caps on stuff,
we're not, you know, I
won't work more than this
many nights a week, you
know, and, you know, weekends
will work out this way
so that there's plenty of
time for family time and
time to work on the
project. You mind sharing how
that, how that kind of
worked out. I mean, what
did you end up coming
up with? We've had a
couple of shows on, on
geek relationships. And I think
both the men and women
who will listen to the
show who might be interested
in turning a hobby into
the company might want to
understand how do they make
that negotiation with the spouse,
with the husband or wife
about, I want to do
something that is separate from
work and separate from family.
And it's gonna take, you
know, 20 to 30 additional
hours a week that we
do right now with other
stuff. I mean, how do
you broach that and what,
what, what did you end
up coming up with as
your compromise? So, I mean,
the first thing is for
us, it's just talking about
it a lot, you know,
trying to be good about,
Hey, you know, how are
you feeling last week was
kind of busy, you know,
are you doing okay? Do
we, you know, should I
dial it back this week?
And just trying to talk
about it a lot, that's
something I'm terrible at, but
my wife is phenomenal at,
so I sort of am
lucky there that that's just
what she does well, and
so that that's biggest thing
is just constantly communicating about
it, you know, and there's
weeks where, you know, my
wife is a, is a
teacher, so there's weeks where
she's exhausted and it's just
kind of all right, where
I'm gonna pass on, on
working this weekend and there's
weeks where she's exhausted. And
she says, you know what,
just go ahead and work
this week. Cause I don't
want to talk or do
anything anyhow. So it's, it's
just kind of a lot
of playing it by ear,
you know, and then just
sort of being proactive about
it, you know, I'm, you
know, Hey honey, I'm I
really want to get this
feature out by next weekend.
I think I'm gonna need,
you know, six to eight
hours this weekend. Is that
possible? Where do you think
we could schedule that in?
And then a lot of
it is just giving up
sleep. Yeah. I was going
to say really the only
way to sneak more hours
out of the day is
to steal them. Yeah, right
Before I've talked to seek
the guy from secret geek.net,
who's known for talking about
micro ISBNs and we did
a little bit of a
show on micro ASVs and,
and he mentioned that programmers
are not marketers and you
found this to be the
case as well. I mean,
having a one person company
means you're the accountant and
you're the webmaster and you're
the programmer and you're the
marketing guy. Right? Yeah. And
I mean, that's probably the,
the hardest thing about, you
know, starting a company is
again, the, the, the things
that you don't know that
you don't know and, and
you sort of learn them
along the way. So, you
know, I like, I imagine
like, like a lot of,
a lot of other programmers,
you know, I I've worked
for other companies, you know,
for, for 10 years and,
and constantly am saying, man,
if what are these guys
doing? You know, I, I
would do this so much
better. And it's like, nah,
now that it's my job
to actually do it. You
turns out it's, it's harder
than you suspected, you know,
things like, like how, how
are we going to let
people know about this? You
know, there's sort of this
naive notion, at least for
me that, you know, Oh,
well, social, social media has
really changed this game. And
now you just, you know,
you create a Twitter account
and a Facebook page and,
and you know, and you
build it and they come
and it turns out that
it's harder than that. So
it's definitely something to think
about ahead of time is,
you know, how am I
going to let people know
about this product? And it's,
it's gonna be harder than,
you know, expect it to
be hard. And it will
be two times harder than
that at least. And it
seems like if I may,
with a project like yours,
there's two audiences, there's the
looky loos. And then there's
the people who would appreciate
it. I know that when
I first heard about audio
orchard that I said, wow,
a multi-track editor and Silverlight,
I need to see that,
you know, cause I, I
thought of it in a,
in a, wow, that's curious,
I didn't know several, I
could do that or what
a weird thing to put
in a browser, but you
know, other than playing with
it for an hour, it
really wasn't, I'm not the
target audience. So how do
you get right? The initial
traffic of the crush of
people who want to see
this weird new thing, know,
look at the, look at
the elephant man and get
all that high ball traffic,
and then turn those into
people who would actually spend
time using the product. Yeah.
So, so luckily for me,
there's an amazing, a really
large crossover between programmers and
musicians. I feel like 80
to 90% of the programmers.
I know also playing instruments.
So, so that's sort of
a, a lucky advantage that
I have, you know, a
lot of people will, will
show up and check it
out, you know, because it
is interesting. Wow, cool. You
can do that in a
browser and, but they're also
musicians, so they'll stick around
and use it for awhile,
but it's definitely, you know,
that's, that's part of the
pro part of the, part
of that, again, learning about
marketing and sales and how
do you, you know, how
do you position the product?
How do you make sure
that you've pitched it in
such a way that people
understand, Oh, this isn't just
neat tech look cool. Interesting.
And then go away. How
do you present it in
such a way that people
kind of see it as
something that actually solves a
pain point for them? You
know, something that, Oh yeah,
it is, it is really
frustrating that I record a
song and I'd like my
buddy from, you know, some
other state to lay down
a guitar track and how
do I get them to
do that? And you know,
how do I, you know,
in that maybe one minute
that I have that, you
know, that, that somebody looks
for, for, for the technical
geek reasons, let them know
that it's more than just
that, you know, and that's
very much a learning process.
That's, you know, things I'm
figuring out as I go
along. And it's, it's a
lot of talking to people
who have tried it out
and finding out, you know,
did you catch that? It
also does this, you know,
and then just trying to
improve it, watch people use
it and try and improve
it. Have you done any
actual marketing? You know, I've
done a little bit of
experimenting with some, some pay-per-click,
but for the most part,
you know, marketing, you know,
when you, when you're starting
your own business on, unless
you're independently wealthy, in which
case you're, you're probably not
doing what I'm trying to
do. You know, you, you
don't have a ton of
cash to do marketing. So,
so it really is another
one of those terms. You,
you learn when you start,
start trying to do this
as guerrilla marketing, and that's
the idea of the sort
of low cost grassroots kind
of marketing it's, you know,
trying to get people to
blog about it, get people
to, you know, to it's
all the social media stuff,
getting people to Twitter about
it, tweet about it. Wow.
I can't believe I said
Twitter. That's so not like
a marketer. Give me, I
know, I know I like
dropped to two points on
the geek scale right there.
Hi, this is Scott coming
to you from another place
in time. Are you using
agile practices to manage your
software development? There's lots of
tools in the market that
manage the steps of a
project, but most of them
focus on individual roles. Get
ready for a solution that
caters for the success of
the whole team. Guys at
Tellerik introduced team pulse. It's
an agile project management tool.
That'll help you gather ideas,
estimate plan, track progress in
a common workspace. Finally companies,
regardless of their size can
use a lightweight and convenient
tool that makes all the
stakeholders work as a United
team. Even if they're in
different countries by combining intuitive
user interface and the power
server light team poles removes
the roadblocks that you typically
face and applying agile in
an effective manner, no more
lost data, no disparate systems,
no lack of critical analytics
regarding the health and philosophy
project. See if yourself get
a free copy for five
users in one project at
tellerik.com/team Pauls. And please do
thank tolerant for supporting Hansel
minutes on their Facebook fan
page, facebook.com/t L E R
I K. Telework. We do
appreciate it. There wouldn't be
a Hanselman. If there wasn't,
Tellerik helping us. Is there
something that you sit down
and task out? Because I
have found in my experience
of programmers are extremely good
at laying out a discreet
task. If that discrete task
is get this feature running
or set up a continuous
integration server, but do guerrilla
marketing rarely gets written down.
So I'm, I'm curious and
I'm kind of pinning you
down a little bit. Did
you say all right, it's
Tuesday, I'm gonna do three
hours of, of marketing work
or is this something that's
organic? And if so, as
I suspect it might be,
do you think that might
hold you back a little
bit? Yeah, no, there's no
question that it holds me
back. It's, you know, honestly,
it's, it's one of the
most difficult things is, you
know, when you have a
limited, you've got a limited
amount of time, right? There's
only so many hours you
can quit, can put into
this thing. So I've, you
know, let's say I've got
three hours. I can work
on something tonight and I
can either put it into
some sort of guerrilla marketing,
which is something I don't
necessarily know how to do.
And it's a little more
in the touchy feely side,
or I can program features
X, Y, and Z, and
have them done and test
it and working. And it's
really easy to go. Well,
I'm going to do the
features because I know what
I'm going to get in
my three hours for that.
And, and so it's really,
it becomes a process of,
you know, just telling yourself,
Nope, I'm going to tonight
is marketing night. And so
I'm going to put effort
into that. And the other
thing is, you know, find
partners it's, it's, it's not
the kind of thing you
can do by yourself, most
likely. So find, you know,
find somebody who's, who's interested
in the marketing side, who's
interested in what you're doing.
You know, if, if the,
if the company you're trying
to build is, is, has
any chance of succeeding, it's,
it's gotta be interesting to
people. So find somebody with
a marketing, marketing, bent, who's,
who's interested in it and,
you know, give them some
equity and, and, and get
them involved and let them
start moving down that path.
And that's, that's what I've
had to do. And it's,
that's been a huge help.
Have you found any, have
you found any partners and
if so, where did you
look for them? Did you
look at that local user
group, or did you find
any college interns? You know,
I, I found any college
interns. I've, I've toyed around
with that idea. You know,
for me, I spent, I
spent a lot of months
just working by myself, just
kind of trying to get
the basic idea all in
place. And before I started
looking for anyone else, I
did find once I sort
of got the initial beta
out there, I had an
old friend who used to
write guitar effects for fender
guitars, and I was able
to get him involved. So
that's been huge. He's got
a lot more of the
low level, you know, writing
EQs and low pass filters
and these types of things
that I don't know anything
about. So that's been huge
from a technical standpoint, but
also once I kinda got
it out there and was
able to start kind of
showing it around, I guess
one thing that was really
interesting is there's a, a
huge startup community in my
town. I live in Phoenix
and it seems to be
that that's true everywhere. So,
you know, it's, it's finding
those, like you said, user
groups and those, you know,
those groups of people in
your town meeting with them,
talking to them. And through
that, as you know, I
attended a user group where
someone who was speaking, showed
them my product, he got
really excited about it. And,
you know, he's, he's been
helping with the marketing and
sort of a biz dev
side of things. And how,
how is it going? I
mean, well, let's just be
Frank. At what point will
the wife call it a
success? You know, the, the
wife will call it a
success when, when she gets
a vacation out of it,
out of the, out of
the cash brought in, I
think that's when it will
be a success for her,
for me, you know, it'll
be, it'll be a success
when, when it, when it
becomes a profitable. So that's
still a little ways out
for us, but it's, you
know, it's, we're, we're making
slow, slow progress. You know,
that's another thing about starting,
starting the company, it's a
long road and it's, it's,
it's, you know, expected to
take a long time. And,
and again, it's going to
take two times longer than
that. So, you know, it's
not, there's, there's a few
of those that hidden are
instantly successful. It probably won't
be you. What are your,
where are your primary costs
that most people who think
about startups are either going
to sell an application and
an app store, or like
you're doing, which is selling
an application slash service that's
in the cloud somewhere. Where
are your costs where your
primary costs, other than your,
your family, your familial costs.
Right. You know, for me,
hosting is, is kind of
a big one. Although that's
been rectified, I had hosting.com
actually gave us a really
good deal and basically eliminated
our costs also. And I
should, should mention we're a
part of the BizSpark program.
And that helped drop a
lot of our costs too.
Cause I covered all our,
all our licenses for, you
know, sequel and I S
and everything we needed. So
that's, that's been a huge
help. You worry about the,
the spark programs, because they'll,
they'll, the idea is for
those who may not be
familiar with those programs is
that Microsoft gives you licenses
for the first three years
to get your startup started.
And then three months later,
presumably if you're a startup
is still around, then they
start to charge you. Yeah.
That makes your cost of
your own now. But do
you feel that they're going
to get you later? Well,
so you get three years
and in the startup world,
that's probably, that's, that's a
long time. So in three
years, either, either you're a
wild success and the license
costs are a nonissue at
that point, or you've given
it your best shot and
it's not working and you're
probably done. So, you know,
it's got a very nominal,
nominal exit fee. I think
it's a hundred dollars after
three years, but you get
to also keep all the
licenses you had, you just
no longer get to, you
know, new licenses to everything
that comes out. Oh, I
see. So you didn't feel
to bait and switch. Do
you don't feel like they're
coming, they're coming for you
in three years? No. No.
It, it very much felt
like a no brainer to
me. I mean, a hundred
dollars in three years is,
is makes it a total
non-issue, it's something to not
worry about compared to everything
else I have on my
plate that I do worry
about. So, Well, I I'm
interested in that because you
are a, as a mobile
person who sells things in
an app store, as well
as this model where there
is no app store, you
know, the, the, the model
in the Apple world is
isn't it like Baya spend
a hundred dollars on the,
to get into the marketplace
at that point, that's pretty
much it. Well, no, the
Apple, world's a little different,
you, you actually have to,
yeah. You have to buy,
buy in to be able
to put things into the,
into the marketplace. So you're
paying, it's still a fairly
nominal, I think it's a
hundred dollars as well. So
it's about the same price.
Just you're paying it up
front instead of at the
edge, Except that their, their
developer tools are free. Their
developer tools are free, but
again, through the BizSpark program,
but the developer tools, our
licenses are also covered. So
I have visual studio licenses
for me. And the couple
of guys that are working
with me. And how are
you, how do you deal
with other guys bringing in
other people, other guys, and
gals bringing them into the
project. When you have a
company that is in the
garage, do you say, I'll
give you 1% of nothing,
or do you, do you
give them beer and chips?
What do you pay them
in a, You pay them
an equity. So it's, you
know, some, some percentage of
the company, which basically is,
you know, is worth nothing
at this point, but, you
know, for both of them,
for the, both the guys
that I'm working with, you
know, they're, they believe in
the product, you know, you
know, they're, they're, especially the,
you know, the, the guy
who's the, from fender, he's
just, he just loves something
to work on that, you
know, is, is, is around
processing audio. So for him,
you know, it's much like
me, it's, it's a hobby.
If the business side completely
fails, it's still a fun
hobby. So, you know, so
there's that, and then the
equity is, you know, hopefully
this does take off. And
at that point, you know,
there's a cash payout as
well. So all the better.
Do you think that if
this whole thing went South
and it just became a
hobby, that that would be
really okay. You have such
great. It would be, I
mean, it would be usually
disappointing, but it would, you
know, it would still have
been a very fun project.
And there's been, there's been
a lot of really great
things that have come out
of this for me, you
know, I've got to meet
a lot of cool people.
I've got to be on
some cool podcasts. And so
it's, it's been, it's had
a lot of, it's had
a lot of advantages that
would make it not a
complete loss if the thing
went belly up. So switching
gears to the, to the
technical, you're doing raw audio
processing in the browser inside
of Silverlight. Did you ever
think you would hit a,
hit a wall with that
you'd want to make, why,
why in the browser and
why not a chubby client,
Right. Yeah. Well, so as
I kind of alluded to
a little bit earlier, you
know, there there's, there's hundreds,
if not thousands of people
who make, you know, fat
client installed applications for, for
multi-track recording, just didn't feel
there was any chance of
breaking into that market. So
kind of felt to do
this. We'd have to have
something very, very distinct and
different about what we are
doing. So putting it in
the browser and making it
a highly collaborative tool, we
kind of felt like gave
us a distinguisher that a
lot of these fat clients
couldn't quickly jump to, you
know, it, wasn't the kind
of thing where it's just
an additional feature they could
quickly add. And then again,
we'd have no distinguisher. So
that was really important early
on was, was that, that
we had something like that.
So that was the idea.
There were definitely concerns about,
you know, how, how possible
would this be? And would
we hit some point where,
Oh, you just can't do
that. You know? And there's
still concerns about that, but
I guess those are some
of the risks you, you
kinda just have to take,
you know, we did enough
prototyping up front that it,
it was a calculated risk,
I guess. And, and we
knew what we were risking
and we felt pretty, pretty
good about, about the possibility
that it would work. And
so far it's worked really
well. So you haven't hit,
I mean, what kind of
technical challenges have you hit
where you thought that that
was the wall like, Oh,
we just hit it, that's
it, you can't do XYZ
in several lines. You know,
there's still a little concerned
about a few different types
of, of microphones, especially people
who have these, you know,
massive banks, you know, that
something that has 16 audio
channels coming in and will
we be able to pull
all 16 of those so
they can record 16 tracks
at one time, it looks
like it's going to be
possible, but we haven't, we
haven't gotten there yet, but
you know, you make contingency
plans. So we're S worst
case scenario. We do some
sort of additional active X
control for IAE and some
in a Firefox plugin that,
that we can then talk
to that can, can get
down to that low level.
Again, those are sort of
more of the edge case
people. So, you know, it's
less than ideal, but, you
know, those are the things
where we kind of go,
man, I really hope, I
really hope that works out.
And just being up against
the CPU, you know, it's,
it's pretty intensive trying to
deal with 10 tracks of,
you know, 44.1 kilohertz audio
and putting multiple effects on
each track and combining them
all and keeping it in,
in real close enough to
real time that people, you
know, don't, don't that it's
usable, you know, it's, it's
a constant battle. And, you
know, in fact, we, at
our last release, we, we,
or maybe it was two
releases ago. Now, we, we
ran into a problem with
that where we, we put
out our, our, our version.
And all of a sudden
there were all these, you
know, the performance had was,
you know, most people, CPS
were being pegged and we
couldn't figure out what we
had done that had changed
that. And man, that is
a horrible feeling. You're just
like, what about that feature?
We just added it is
breaking the CPU. And it
turned out after we, we
messed around with it for
awhile, we had changed, we
had changed something so that
there was a blur effect
on, on the sort of
the root, the root element
that was normally set to
zero blur. But when we
did some certain transitions, we'd
sort of, you know, we,
we would use a transition
to, to blur, to sort
of do a blur effect.
Well, that was causing the
entire screen to have to
redraw every frame. So you're
trying to redraw the entire
screen at 60 frames a
second, and that's not so
good for your CPU. How
long did it take you
to figure that out? It
took, let me think. A
couple of nights of dabbling
around, you know, it started
with removing the, the, the
feature that I thought was
the problem only to realize
that made no difference. And
then you sort of started
stripping stuff away, and none
of the audio stuff made
a difference. So eventually just
happened to turn on there's
some really cool development things.
You can, you can turn
on the redraw rectangles. I
forget exactly what it's called,
but it basically shows you
visually on the screen, what
part of the screen is
being redrawn. And the entire
screen just started lighting up
and is one big block
of giant redraw. And so
then it was a matter
of removing things from the,
from the visual tree until
that stopped. And then it
was once we found it,
it was really obvious. Oh,
of course, a blur even
at zero is causing the
entire screen to redraw. So
we just had to rethink
how we did that. And
then it wasn't a hard
fix once we found it.
So you've said that the,
the thing that would allow
you to be distinguished, distinguished
from the, the other multi-track
editors out there was the
fact that you're online. So
other than the fact that
you're inside the browser, what
is it that you do
that is, that is unique.
Yeah. So, so we store
then all the audio files
that you record on our
server. So what that means
is, you know, if you
record part of a song,
you can, you can invite
your friend or whoever it
might be to, to participate.
They basically get a link
and they can just show
up. It'll automatically, you know,
download everything to their computer
so they can work with
it all right there. So
it solves a bunch of
problems that, that, that musicians
have today in terms of
just one is, you know,
this is a free tool
at this point, you know,
you don't have to worry
about, Oh, I've got garage
band and you have pro
audio. You know, it, we
can use the same tool.
It's, you know, because it's,
Silverlight, it's cross platform, which
not a lot of, of
the audio tools out there
today are, you know, it
just, it makes it really
easy to invite people to
manage, you know, this person
can, can access this part.
This person isn't allowed to
work with it as well
as we make it really
easy then for when people
are done to, you know,
easily share this to, to,
to Facebook and Twitter, and
then let you know, let
people, let their, let people
share it to their existing
sort of fan base, which
is, you know, my set
of friends who will care
about my music, you know,
and then from there, we,
we let those people, and
this is actually gonna be
coming in our next version,
but we let those people
sort of make remixes, you
know, so again, since we're
storing all this data, you
know, somebody, I don't want
anonymous person a to come
in and tweak with my
song, but I don't mind
if they can sort of
make a full fledged copy
and tweak with that, all
they want, as long as
it doesn't affect my song.
So that's some of where
we're trying to go with
this, that sort of things,
that existing tools just don't
have a way to do
that we think will be
really exciting. It sounds a
little bit like get hub
for music. Yeah. Yeah. That's
exactly a lot of people
make that comparison on another
one. A lot of people
call us the Google docs
for music. And is this
something where you can edit
as well? Or how, how,
how prepared does the audio
file have to be before
it's uploaded Today? Any wave
file will work. You know,
eventually we'll, we'll be adding
MP3s and a hand, a
handful of other formats, but
yeah, any way file you
can upload, we, we have
a partnership with a loop
company, so there's a, a
thousand free loops in there
that you can use completely
royalty free today. So, you
know, if you show up
and you want to get
started, you know, there's a
lot there for you to
play with in terms of,
you know, just basic drum
beats and stuff to start
recording against. And, you know,
and then any, any microphone
that shows up as a,
as a audio device on
your, on your computer will,
will work for recording on,
and you can record that
and it all gets uploaded
to our server. And can
I, can you trim and
edit afterwards? Yup. Yup. And
That's something we just added
in our last release. So
you can not, you know,
if something's not lined up
quite right, you can move
it. You can trim the
beginning and the end of
the, you know, if you
hear a mouse click at
the end or whatever, or
you made a mistake at
some point, you can sort
of trim that out. There's
a lot more coming in
in that area, but yeah,
it's, it's, it's, you know,
it's the goal is to
be a very full featured
multi-track recorder. Oh, very cool.
Maybe we'll do you have
any podcasts that are editing
up there? We, that would
be great. We haven't seen
any of that yet, but
it's definitely, it's definitely doable.
Cool. Maybe some of the
listeners will check it out.
So right now you're at
audio orchard.com in the next
few weeks, as you make
your legally required name change,
what's the best way for
people to find you. We
will be scratch audio.com, but
we'll hold on to the
audio orchard domain and forward
it on. So either one
should work for that for
the foreseeable future. Very cool.
Well, Eric or Branson, thanks
so much for, for chatting
with me today on the
show. Thank you so much
for having me. I really
appreciate it. Spin another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'll
see you again next week.